recv() - 
recvfrom() - 
recvmsg() - 
write()
sendto()
select - 
pselect - 
inet_pton
inet_ntop
htons
ntohs 

--------------socket(int domain, int type, int protocol) ------------------- 
Starting with kernel 2.6.27, Linux provides a second use for the type argument,
by allowing two nonstandard flags to be ORed with the socket type. The
SOCK_CLOEXEC flag causes the kernel to enable the close-on-exec flag (FD_CLOEXEC)
for the new file descriptor. This flag is useful for the same reasons as the open()
O_CLOEXEC flag described in Section 4.3.1. The SOCK_NONBLOCK flag causes the kernel
to set the O_NONBLOCK flag on the underlying open file description, so that future
I/O operations on the socket will be nonblocking. This saves additional calls
to fcntl() to achieve the same result.
                  -------------

setsockopt(int fd, )
getsockname()
bind(int fd, const struct sockaddr *sock, socklen_t socklength)

 ------------ listen(int sockfd, int backlog) -------------
The backlog argument allows us to limit the number of such pending connections. 
Connection requests up to this limit succeed immediately. Further connection requests block until a pending connection
is accepted (via accept()), and thus removed from the queue of pending connections.
 SUSv3 specifies that the implementation should advertise this limit by defining the constant SOMAXCONN in <sys/socket.h>.
On Linux, this constant is defined with the value 128. However, since kernel 2.4.25, Linux allows this limit to be adjusted at run time via the Linux-specific /proc/sys/net/core/somaxconn file. 
(In earlier kernel versions, the SOMAXCONN limit is immutable.). All modern implementations allow higher values of backlog, which are necessary for network servers employing TCP sockets to serve large numbers of clients.
           -------------

------------------int connect(int sockfd , const struct sockaddr * addr , socklen_t addrlen )--------------------
If connect() fails and we wish to reattempt the connection, then SUSv3 specifies
that the portable method of doing so is to close the socket, create a new socket, and
reattempt the connection with the new socket.
A socket may be closed using the close() system call or as a consequence of the
application terminating. Afterward, when the peer application attempts to
read from the other end of the connection, it receives end-of-file (once all buff-
ered data has been read). If the peer application attempts to write to its socket,
it receives a SIGPIPE signal, and the system call fails with the error EPIPE . As we
noted in Section 44.2, the usual way of dealing with this possibility is to ignore
the SIGPIPE signal and find out about the closed connection via the EPIPE error.


--------accept(int fd, struct sockaddr * addr, socklen_t *len) ----------
The key point to understand about accept() is that it creates a new socket, and it is
this new socket that is connected to the peer socket that performed the connect(). A
file descriptor for the connected socket is returned as the function result of the
accept() call. The listening socket (sockfd) remains open, and can be used to accept
further connections. A typical server application creates one listening socket, binds
it to a well-known address, and then handles all client requests by accepting connections via that socket.
The remaining arguments to accept() return the address of the peer socket. The
addr argument points to a structure that is used to return the socket address. The type
of this argument depends on the socket domain (as for bind()).
The addrlen argument is a value-result argument. It points to an integer that,
prior to the call, must be initialized to the size of the buffer pointed to by addr, so
that the kernel knows how much space is available to return the socket address.
Upon return from accept(), this integer is set to indicate the number of bytes of data
actually copied into the buffer.
If we are not interested in the address of the peer socket, then addr and addrlen
should be specified as NULL and 0, respectively. (If desired, we can retrieve the peer’s
address later using the getpeername() system call, as described in Section 61.5.)
Starting with kernel 2.6.28, Linux supports a new, nonstandard system call,
accept4(). This system call performs the same task as accept(), but supports an
additional argument, flags, that can be used to modify the behavior of the system
call. Two flags are supported: SOCK_CLOEXEC and SOCK_NONBLOCK. The SOCK_CLOEXEC
flag causes the kernel to enable the close-on-exec flag (FD_CLOEXEC) for the new
file descriptor returned by the call. This flag is useful for the same reasons as
the open() O_CLOEXEC flag described in Section 4.3.1. The SOCK_NONBLOCK flag
causes the kernel to enable the O_NONBLOCK flag on the underlying open file
description, so that future I/O operations on the socket will be nonblocking.
This saves additional calls to fcntl() to achieve the same result.
        ----------------------------
